1. what is ddl?
ans:-The present database industry incorporates DDL into any formal language describing data.
 However, it is considered to be a subset of SQL (Structured Query Language).
 SQL often uses imperative verbs with normal English such as sentences to implement database modifications.
 Hence, DDL does not show up as a different language in an SQL database, but does define changes in the database schema.

It is used to establish and modify the structure of objects in a database by dealing with descriptions of the database schema.
 Unlike data manipulation language (DML) commands that are used for data modification purposes, 
DDL commands are used for altering the database structure such as creating new tables or objects along with all their attributes (data type, table name, etc.).


 2.what is dml?
ans:-DML resembles simple English language and enhances efficient user interaction with the system.
 The functional capability of DML is organized in manipulation commands like SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT INTO and DELETE FROM, as described below:

SELECT: This command is used to retrieve rows from a table. The syntax is SELECT [column name(s)] from [table name] where [conditions].
 SELECT is the most widely used DML command in SQL.

UPDATE: This command modifies data of one or more records.
 An update command syntax is UPDATE [table name] SET [column name = value] where [condition].

INSERT: This command adds one or more records to a database table.
 The insert command syntax is INSERT INTO [table name] [column(s)] VALUES [value(s)].

DELETE: This command removes one or more records from a table according to specified conditions.
 Delete command syntax is DELETE FROM [table name] where [condition].

what is dql?
ans:-
DQL commands are basically SELECT statements.
 SELECT statements let you query the database to find information in one or more tables, and return the query as a result set.
 A result set is an array structure; or more precisely, a result set is a two-dimensional array.
 The internal index for each row of data is the rowid pseudo-column, which maps to the physical address for where the data is written.

difference  between delet and truncate.
ans:-Drop-A drop command is used to delete objects such as a table, index or view.
 A DROP statement cannot be rolled back, so once an object is destroyed, there’s no way to recover it.

Drop statement syntax is:

DROP object type object name;

For example:

DROP TABLE Employee;

In this example, we’re deleting the Employee table.

Truncate-Similar to DROP, the TRUNCATE statement is used to quickly remove all records from a table.
 However, unlike DROP that completely destroys a table, TRUNCATE preserves its full structure to be reused later.

Truncate statement syntax is:

TRUNCATE TABLE table_name;

For example:

TRUNCATE TABLE Employee;

In this example, we’re marking all the extents of the Employee table for deallocation, so they’re considered empty for reuse.

Difference between table and field.
ans:- Table-A table is a set of data that are organized in a model with Columns and Rows.
 Columns can be categorized as vertical, and Rows are horizontal.
 A table has specified number of column called fields but can have any number of rows which is called record.
Example:.
Table: Employee.


Field-Tables contain rows and columns, where the rows are known as records and the columns are known as fields.
 A column is a set of data values of a particular type (like numbers or alphabets), one value for each row of the database.
 for example, Age, Student_ID, or Student_Name,etc.

difference between table and view.
ans:-Table-A table is a set of data that are organized in a model with Columns and Rows.
 Columns can be categorized as vertical, and Rows are horizontal.
 A table has specified number of column called fields but can have any number of rows which is called record.
Example:.
Table: Employee.


View-A view is a subset of a database that is generated from a user query and gets stored as a permanent object. In a structured query language (SQL) database.
 for example, a view becomes a type of virtual table with filtered rows and columns that mimic those of the original database.

what is alias.
ans:-SQL aliases are used to give a table, or a column in a table, a temporary name.
Aliases are often used to make column names more readable.
An alias only exists for the duration of that query.
An alias is created with the AS keyword.
